# risk-and-desicion-analysis
Full R code implementation and technical write up for the project

We are aware of the greenhouse emissions and rise of global warming. The contribution of transportation sector in the total US greenhouse emission is 28% (EPA, 2016). The U.S. roadway network poses significant impact on the environment, having more than four million miles of public roads, and with generation of 6526 million metric tons of Carbon Dioxide (CO2) and total fuel consumption of nearly 168 billion gallons (FHWA, 2015). Few of the factors contributing to CO2 emissions involves pavement condition, design, and its characteristics as they affect the fuel consumption of the vehicle (Gyenes and Mitchell, 1994; Chatti and Zaabar, 2012). The need for achieving sustainable transportation system requires maintaining nation’s roadway network in good condition. As per the estimates of U.S. department of transportation, maintenance of national highways at their current condition requires an expenditure of nearly $95 to $109 billion during 2014 and 2020 respectively. There is limited financial resources from the government for infrastructure maintenance. Therefore, it is necessary to allocate resources where they are the most required. Predictive models which predict the condition of the road will help with identifying roads with higher environmental footprints and which requires maintenance.

The data set considered for our project is taken from Long-Term Payment Performance (LTPP) dataset (https://infopave.fhwa.dot.gov/) which is a huge repository of data collected over two decades.
